From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist and Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 20 recorded
live Thursday, July 1st, 2010. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
teller at rad controls. The
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Pete
Brown, Larry Larson, Jeff Kirkham, and
Chris Kirk about creating the
ultimate developer machine. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And on this week,
we are trying to build
the greatest computer in the
history of mankind. In fact,
we want to build God's
own computer, the good Lord's
own computer with all due
respect, specifically a computer that
is going to be a
great developer machine. We have
a limited budget, a little
bit more than the average
computer. Our budget is $3,000,
but we want this machine
to hit 7.9 on the
windows experience index. So I've
got some experts from all
over Microsoft to help us
do this. Got Larry Larson hardware
experts from channel nine. How's
it going? Larry. Larry has
the flu. So if you
hear anyone hacking up along
in the background, that's Larry,
Larry, Larry from the PDC
laptop. He helped work on
that. We have got Pete
Brown hardware enthusiast who started
overclocking Commodore 64 when he
was six months old. Hey
Scott. And then we have
Jeff Kirkham who is here
from the Windset team. He's
a developer who actually works
on this, this index. He
actually knows about how to
measure these things. How are
you, Jeff? I'm doing fine.
Glad to be here, Scott.
So we've got a pretty
broad group of enthusiasts here.
We've got our, our, our
people from deep inside of
Microsoft are gonna help us
make this happen. Why don't
we start by finding out
what is the windows experience
index. Larry, can you, can
you explain kind of like,
what's the point of this
number that measures how fast
your overall system assessment to
figure out if your hardware
runs a series of tests
on your computer and then
out of the sub scores,
the lowest score will be
your score is only as
fast as its weakest link.
So running the soul Will
give you an overview of
how fast your system is.
It was introduced in Vista
and it went up to
5.9 and in windows seven,
they raised the score up
a little bit. So it
goes up to 7.9. Okay.
And, but this is an
arbitrary number. This is not
megahertz. It's not anything. It's
just like my number, my
machines is six, six, one.
It's just a six. Yeah.
And it's not really an
arbitrary number because you will
get a, you know, the
same score, basically every time
you run it and it
goes, it goes up a
little bit and it goes
down a little bit, depending
on the efficiency of your
drivers as well. Okay. So
I'm looking at my machine
here. I'm just going to
the start menu, right? Clicking
on computer and hitting properties.
Another way you can do
this, I think is you
can hit window break. And
it says here rating 5.9.
And I click on that
and my machine has a
7.1 processor, 7.1 memory, 6.7
graphics, and a 5.9 hard
drive. What does this tell
me about my computer, Larry?
Well, it tells you that
you're a weakest link. There
is your hard drive and
that's usually the case from
what I've seen on the
different machines. So you could
upgrade your, your hard drive
and bump your score up
a little bit. They'll bring
your entire system score up
a degree depending on what
kind of hard drives you
put in it. Hmm. And
how is, how do I
know if this is a
good number? I mean, is
this printed on software? Do
I go and buy a
copy of world of Warcraft?
And it says, if you
don't have a five, nine
year old loser or what,
what good is this number
other than telling my friends?
Well, there's a couple of
things that you can glean
from it. I mean, first
of all, you have to
have a three or higher
to have Aero glass. Of
course, it depends on what
you're doing with your machine.
If it's a business machines
and you know, a lot
of people will say three
is okay, probably the person
that's doing purchasing for your
hardware and your department. And
I would say probably a
five or a six is
a little bit better, a
five, if it's a laptop,
you know, six or a
seven, if it's a desktop.
But of course, all of
us wants the absolute highest
score that we can get.
One of the things that
we did in DPE is
we had a coding for
fun projects called we share,
and you can get to
it@wpishare.net. And this will allow
you to run your windows
experience index, and then submit
your scores up to the
cloud. And it goes up
to an Azure site. And
then we can use that
to try to see what
different scores various machines get.
So you can go up
there and get an idea
of some of the faster
machines and what kinds of
scores they get. I would
say if you're at a
six, a 6.5 or a
seven, you you've probably got
a pretty good machine at
least, you know, for entry
level gaming. So I suppose
that if I, if I
look at this and I
have like a four, and
then I look at my
numbers and it's like six,
six, seven, six, four, that's
a obvious example where I
should look at that one
low component and potentially update
it. That's a pretty weak,
weak link. Okay, interesting. So
then real quick, please. This
is Jeff, just to clarify
on how these scores are,
are done. You need to
think of the digits on
the left as a class
of the machine and the
digit on the right as
a linear number within that
class. So going from a
6.8 to say a 6.9
is not the same as
going from a 7.8 to
a 7.9. That, that line,
once you get to a
given class has a different
slope to that line. Interesting.
Is this kind of like
the, the Richter scale in
the sense that of a
six is 10 times faster
than a fine? No, it
isn't. I wish it was
simple to explain like that,
but it's not just important
to understand that we're dealing
with classes of numbers rather
than one long scale that
goes from zero to 7.9.
So, So that wouldn't be
that much better than a
six, nine. Yeah. You would
be stepped up right there.
Cool. Interesting. So that's very
interesting. So I've got these
seven process and I've got
a hard drive. That's just
working it's a little bit
off at 5.95. If I
updated that to some, a
better hard drive, then it
would take my machine to
a whole other class and
potentially make things a lot
easier. Yeah. I actually think
even in that case, you
would notice it and clearly
if you put an SSD
in there, you're going to
notice it. All right. So
Pete Brown, what is our
goal? What is our goal
in this machine? We've both
gotten permission from our respective
bosses specifically to build these
machines. I've allocated some of
the funds at this point,
And there was sufficient eye-rolling
as part of that, There's
a, there's a, another name
for that boss. It's a
common name. It's called she
who must be obeyed. Right.
It's pretty much So, so
there were a couple of
goals for what we're trying
to do here. You know,
the first is just to
build a really awesome machine,
right. And you can build
a really awesome machine. That's
a seven class, just like
we learned here and maybe
it's a seven, five, and
I'm using my machine and
it's worlds better than what
I'm doing now. So I'm
pretty happy with that. But
then there's this whole kind
of, you know, I want
to hit seven, nine just
because it's a number that
can be obtained. You know?
So when I was in
high school, I took my
mother's car down a very
steep Hill, along a long
ways just to, to max
out the speedometer, but it
wasn't because I was in
a hurry it's because there
was a number at the
end of that speedometer. And
I wanted to see if
I could hit it. So,
I mean, there's definitely some
just because aspect to this
and truthfully getting to a
seven, nine is going to
mean you're going to have
a really, really good machine.
Right. Plus Scott, you have
a 30 display and a
bunch of displays. Right, right.
Yeah. And I've got the
same things, 30 inch, I've
got a couple other monitors.
So we're also looking at
something that needs to be
pretty, you know, pretty heavy
on the graphics department to
push all those pixels. So
I know I've read some
of the comments on the
blog and stuff that said,
you know, why are we
building kind of the world's
best gaming machine here when
we're not, you know, huge
PC gamers, we have Xboxes.
And that's what we do
most of our gaming on,
but it's not just about,
you know, gaming graphics. It's
about pushing more pixels, being
more efficient in visual studio,
opening more applications at the
same time. So, you know,
more cores is better having,
you know, more instances of
visual studio open and compiling
doing things like a video
and coding, which is a
big task we do on
our team. A lot that
we use as many cores
and as possible and as
fast as possible. So there
are a whole bunch of
different things here that pile
into, you know, the use
of this in addition to
just the fact that we
want to hit a seven,
nine. Well, doesn't that mean
though, that you're optimizing for
a moment in time. That's
not very common. I mean,
there have been times on
my little five, nine machine
here, which by the way,
was the ultimate machine three
years ago when I built
it, when I built this
machine for Vista, this was
the greatest machine. And at
this point it's not, but
there have been times when
I've had two or three
versions of visual studio, open
outlook, you know, 20 browser
tabs. I've been literally capturing
video from a video camera,
squishing video. I mean, I've
had those moments. Am I
optimizing for that, that moment
where like twice a month,
I'm using the machine to
its, to its fullest. Maybe
there's a bit of that.
Right. So it depends on
how much that time is
worth to you. Right. You
know, if you're doing the
video and coding, and it's
a difference between sitting down
for an hour or sitting
down for 20 minutes, that
can be a big deal
on that particular day. Right.
And it also just, it
leads to a sense of
satisfaction if you're using your
computer and you look at
this process that you know,
is going to take everybody
else two hours and it
only takes 20 minutes for
you to run. It just
makes you feel good about
what's sitting in front of
you, you know, plus, you
know, we're, we're people that
have built our PCs for
pretty much every PC since
way back when, you know,
the last PC that I
actually bought was a two
86. And so there's something
to be said about a
machine well-built that kind of
maxes things out as much
as possible. Okay. So we
know the goal people may
or may not agree with
the goal, but there's some
interesting questions on Twitter here.
Like what percentage of the
cost are we estimating is
going to be used to
go from like seven, eight
to seven nine? Because it
seems to me from the
discussion on the blogs on
our, you and I, he
blogged about this, that it's
pretty easy to go and
just spend a lot of
money and get a seven
five, seven, six, seven, seven.
It really is requires very
little skill or effort. Are
we going to spend a
lot of effort trying to
get an extra point or
two and two to Jeff's
point we've already got, we've
already got Class seven machine.
Right. And I don't know
how, you know, some of
those things are the price
of the various components. Like
the, I was looking at
processor prices. And so like
the, you know, the top
of the line I seven,
six score is a thousand
dollars. And then the step
down from that as a
four core, and it's like
five or $600 somewhere around
there. And if you go
a couple of steps down
and still stay within the
three gigahertz range, you're still
looking at around 500, right?
So that's about a, you're
paying about two X to
get a super fast processor
with extra threads, if you're
interested in that. But I
think the biggest cost here,
and you guys correct me
if I'm wrong, but I
think it's gotta be the
drives, the SSDs we were
looking at, you know, what
it takes to be able
to get a seven, nine
on the SSD drives. And
it looks like it might
actually be a pretty intense
process, like having multiple SSDs
using like a raid zero
striping or something, which in
itself is kind of scary,
but it will get you
that performance unless you want
to go and spend, you
know, I was looking at
the new ag earlier today
and I saw the 10
grand OCC SSD that just
came out. It's a five,
12 gig does like 1400
megabytes per second or something
crazy like that. But that
might be out of budget.
All right, well, let's, let's
do this. Let's talk about
what is the subsystem in
inside of windows that is
doing this measurement and kind
of how that works. And
then we'll talk about parts
that we're going to build.
Okay. The, the program that,
that actually runs underneath the
UI is Windset exe. W
I N S a T
it's in a windows system,
32, you can run it
from the command line. If
you run it from the
command line and give us
just the word formal as
your parameter, that's exactly equivalent
to what the UI is
doing. So if somebody is
out there may be overclocking
with some of the newer
tools to let you over
clock. While you're in windows,
you could have a command
window open, you'd have to
be with administrator rights, front
Windset exe formal, and your
you'll be able to get
your scores right there on
the command window and see
what they are. So you
don't have to keep going
back to this UI to
run the system if you
want. Okay. Now I remember
runs when I've installed windows.
Like I install windows. I
went through the setup the
very, very first time, and
it runs right away, windows
care so bad that it
would run this immediately upon
boot that's really because the
DWM is dependent on that.
The windows manager to determine
whether you get arrow class
or not. They depend on
the numbers that we come
up with in our scoring
system. So that's why I
run then. And then every
week on Sunday night, it
pops up again and runs
to determine if you've changed
any of your critical hardware.
So if changed any of
that hardware, it can re
evaluate your scores and update
your scores. Okay? And this,
this has used anywhere else.
Is it only used to
update that number and then
to help There's a couple
of other places, particularly now
that we've got the SSD
drives, we want to make
sure that if, if we
detect there's an SSD, there,
we shut down the disc
defrag. There's no point in
running that it's just going
to wear out the drive.
A super fetch is another
one where we basically just
disabled, super fetch. If we
find that the drive is
fast enough to handle the
requests during boot, that we
don't need a super fetch.
So we do have a
couple of features in windows
that are dependent on us.
Okay. So more and more
people are becoming dependent on
knowing about this score so
that they can make decisions
about whether or not they
want to run a certain
thing. Can, can I query
this? Can my application ask
questions of the, of the
windows experience index and make
decisions based on that? Sure.
There either is on MSDN,
there's full documentation for an
API that where you can
get the scores, you can
also do an X path
query into the XML that
we've stored all the data
in, and then there's actually
a WMI provider that you
could use. Also, that's pretty
fast. If you happen to
be good with PowerShell or
something, you can pop that
open and gets the scores
really fast that way. Oh,
I didn't realize that was
an XML that was really
easily accessible. I think that
Pete and I just got
an interesting little bit of
code. We can right there
then to check that out.
There's actually that XML has
got a lot of data
in their, a system configuration
data. It's kind of interesting
to look at. I would
hope people wouldn't mess around
with it when they're in
there, but it is interesting
to look at, Oh, people
will mess around with it.
Now that we know about
it. One thing to keep
in mind too, is we
share as open source. So
if you want something to
start with, you can certainly
try that. Cool. So all
the code that does, what
we need to do is
in the WEEI share.net code.
And is that a code
flex.com/w I share? Yes. Correct.
Okay, cool. Okay. So the
machine we're going to build,
let's start at the processor
guys. What's it going to
take to get a seven,
nine processor today? So from
looking at what was uploaded
to we share, it looks
like you need to be
overclocking at like four gigahertz
plus with at least a
quad core that's out about
right. I think that's the
stuff that we, that we
came up with. I think
a person might be able
to get by with a
lower speed if they had
more cores. Cause we do
take that into account and
measuring and the more cores
will help boost that The
score is not a requirement
for, for getting a 79
on processor. Christmas. If I
stepped in on this one.
Yeah. Chris. Okay. Hang On.
I just had someone show
up here who wasn't introduced
at the beginning of the
show. Who's on the phone
now. I'm also one of
the engineers on Winnie AI.
Awesome. Hi, Chris. Kirk, thanks
for joining the call. So
the thing about the CPU
score is that we combine
your single core performance as
well as your multi-core performance,
since not all applications use
one or the other. So
having more course will definitely
help out, but there's a
certain limit. You must be
at least so fast on
a single, Okay. So I'm
hearing, when I look around
on the blogs that 77
78 is pretty easy to
get. Are we just at
a moment in time right
now where 79 is not
easily bought off the, off
the shelf? Or do I
just need to go out
and buy two quads and
a dual process, like two
products, two separate quads and
build an eight quad machine
to get you seven, nine
A little bit future-proof so
it's something that's reachable today,
if you overclock, but given
tomorrow's hardware will be a
lot easier. This is the
part of the show where
I mock you while actually
Tellerik mock says your applications
that you're testing dependent on
external systems over which you
have no control. Maybe you're
being slowed down by those
systems or lack of availability.
Responsiveness. Do you want to
do TDD? Right? Our friends
at Telerx help you solve
some of those problems with
their newest mocking tool, just
mock to let you do
fast, simple controlled unit tests,
independent of external resources like
databases, web services, proprietary code,
unlike some mocking tools, just
mock works with non-virtual methods,
seal classes, static methods, giving
you a complete control of
your code. You can get
more details. You can download
just mock at telerik.com/just mock.
And don't forget to thank
Tellerik for supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page,
facebook.com/tellerik. Thanks a lot. Would
you guys say as a
collective that for the ultimate
developer machine that we need
to go and get one
of the new six processor
machine, the hexachord or should
we just go with a
quad today, Trouble with overclocking
you can do it with
a quad core and use
the extra money to put
into the district. Okay. So
this is we've already jumping
ahead because we're assuming it
disagree. So that's very interesting.
My only thing is that
I think Pete and I
have both had the conversation
that if we bought a
quad, we might just be
sad because in a year
or two, you know, you're
going to be able to
pick up a hexachord machine,
a six processor, one for
like nine bucks at the
local gas station. So we're
just kind of wondering, like,
I already have a quad
Build six core just cause
I want one but Pride.
Okay. But aren't they aren't,
they harder to overclock The
nine 80 X is designed
to be overclocked so, ah,
okay. So nine 80 X.
So that's then that's the
one that keeps coming up.
This is an . We
had a couple people on
the blog say we should
do an AMD, but more
and more people are saying
that this nine 80 X
just as meant for overclocking.
What I've usually heard is
they, AMD is, is good,
like price performance. But if
you want kind of top
of the line, the nine
80 X right now is,
you know, it's, it's 3.3
gigahertz, I think. And it's
using the, you know, the
32 nanometer process and it's
just optimized for overclocking and
folks are getting this thing
way up over four on
some, doing some stuff short
term on air cooling, but
mostly on liquid. And what's
the price on something like
that then? Yeah. So that's
a grand, that's sort of
the hard part about it.
Wow. So that's the thing,
it's a third of our
puts a third of our
budget and you know, people
that are saying, well, you
know, you could get us
basically the same one for
half the price and just
get a, you know, why
do you want to work
so hard to get that
last, that 0.9, you know,
500 we could hit maybe
seven, six 77, something like
that. It's close to the
600. And I think you
can, overclock it quite a
bit. And, or maybe not
have to overclock it as
much as some of the
previous generations, but overclock it
enough to be able to
get the seven nine, if
you want to. So like
for a pure seven, nine
stuff, I personally think you
can do it on a
cheaper processor, but I look
at five 69, which is
what I see the prices
versus nine 99. I'm thinking,
you know, what the price
for my happiness is $400
worth my happiness. Yeah. That's
a lot of lattes. You
could buy $400. You know,
the other thing is that,
you know, at this point
in remembering Vista, the WPI
score was max at five,
nine it's max at seven,
nine currently in windows seven.
I don't know when I
hit seven, nine, if there's
really, if I'm, if I'm
an eight or if I'm
in some theoretical number that
I can't see yet, but
if I buy a $600
processor and then push it
up to seven, nine, I
feel like maybe I'm like
wearing lifts in my shoes
and I'll always know I'm
not really that tall. So
then whenever the numbers do
go up in the future,
we'll, we'll find out that
really I've been walking on
my tiptoes all this time.
And Larry points out here
on the chat that there's
a core to quad. That's
getting a 7.9. That was
a $300 processor. So I
think that with overclocking, it
sounds like that we have
actual proof from the WVI
share website that you can
take a Quan Q 96
50 and take it up
to two seven, nine. It
really standing on your tip
toes, but you can do
it for 300 bucks. So
that's really going to be
a tough decision for pinata
to make I think. And
that one, when I looked
at the data that guys
or that person has that,
I think those are normally
like a three gigahertz processor.
It's got to go in
at 4.3. So I'm pretty
sure they're, they've got a
pretty high tech setup. The,
the, the four We need
to get to the four
gigahertz speed. It looks like
in order to even think
about seven point. Yeah. Yeah.
It's pretty compelling. Yeah. Okay.
Okay. So four gigahertz. We're
going to have to, I
don't know if we're gonna
make it, maybe we'll be
able to make that decision
here, but I think I'm
going to want to lean
towards spending a little bit
more money. I mean, it's
not every day that I
get permission to spend money
and I think I'm leaning
towards a little bit more
expensive processor, just a future
proof myself. And I really
liked the idea of a
six product, but it sounds
like the processor is definitely
to be the challenge. Now
memory, usually when I put
together machines, the memory is
always the same score as
the processor for me, I
know that it changes on
lower machines, but is it
really going to be very
hard for the memory to,
to get a high score
as well? Again, for the
memory, you will do that.
There is A connection between
the CPU score and the
memory score. They kind of
depend on each other a
little, A little bit, but
if you're going to build
a 64 bit machine and
you get enough memory On
there, then your memory score
will be independent, The CPU.
Okay. So do we think
that this is, I mean,
I've got eight right now
and it's, it's fine. Unless
I'm running a couple of
VMs and outlook and you
know, how does do I
want to go 12? Or
do we want to go
16? Here is 16 little
crazy thoughts, all that. Go
ahead, Chris, do you know,
It really comes down to
what sort of applications you're
planning Since this was going
to be a developer machine.
You're going to be building
a lot of code for
not a whole lot more
money. You can switch to
16. So why not? Okay.
Is that enough memory? Do
you think that that what
is enough memory now And
stuff? I do 12 gigs,
But tomorrow who knows? Please?
Sure. So if we're looking
at triple channel memory, then
you're looking at getting three
sticks at a time, like
to, you know, in match
sentence. Right? So that means
you're probably looking at either
12 or 24. Wow. Can
we fit 24 in our
budget? Wow. I haven't priced
my memory every time I
price memory out, it's like
a hundred percent different. Well,
see, this is the thing
about memory is that, you
know, they're like, like Larry
says that there's, there's seven
nines that have six gigs
of memory, but I mean,
no one here would propose
that six gigs would be
enough for the ultimate machine.
I mean, I definitely, I
mean, I, I have so
many tabs open in my
browser. I've got outlook, I've
got tweet deck. I've got
Metro Twitter. I've got all
this different crap running 12,
I think is my minimum.
If I could get 24,
that'd be awesome. But I
just want to see the
pricing on that. We'll triple
check That has six, six
slots you're looking at, you
know, you can get 12
now if you get like
three by four, and then
if you want the other
24, you can slip it
in under another project. Right.
Or the other 12. Okay.
And what am I going
to do with the motherboard
level to make sure I
could do 24? You need
to make sure the board
has enough enough slots that
you're 24. And I think
the most of them will
these days at least do
it, but it's worth double
checking. Okay. All right. I
personally think I'm going to
start with 12. You're gonna
start with 12. You're not
going to even think about
more than that. And there's
no way to get to
like 16 or something like
that. There is, but you
start losing some of the
advantages of, of triple channel.
And don't ask me what
those advantages are. I just
know that match sets with,
you know, the, the three,
the three sticks is a
good thing for performance, but
I haven't done any actual
measurement. Okay. Is it feels
like back in the day
and we were doing two
86 and three 86 is,
and you had to have
memory in a certain order
and had to have a
certain amount number of sticks.
And we went back to
that again. Well kind of,
you know, they're selling these
things as, as match sets
where they're all time the
same, and they're all the
same quality to kind of
make sure that you don't
get, you know, one stick
that's a lower quality than
all the other ones. And
have it bring down the
rest of your system. Tricky,
tricky. Okay. Now, interestingly with
the WPI, with the windows
experience index, you've got processor
and memory, those are separate
scores and then there's hard
drive, but then graphics and
gaming graphics are separate things.
So desktop performance and 3d
performance are two different things.
It was apparent, which always
implied to me that some
video cards are really greater
at moving transparent windows around
and somebody who cards or
creative pushing polygons around. But
in my experience, it's always
been the same score for
my video cards. Are those,
are those really so important
that they need to be
separate? So Jeff or Chris?
I think that, that I
would kind of say that
they probably aren't that important
to be separate things, but
again, we wanted, we needed
a test for the desktop
windows manager and we did
want to get a good
3d test in there too.
So I think that's how
it kind of evolved into
two separate scores, one, particularly
for gamers and then one
just a general desktop video
Score. Yeah. So I have
a question on this because
the awesome machine that Scott
had sent to me when
I first joined does a
five, five on gaming graphics,
but a four on arrow.
So I'm trying to figure
out what kind of, what
kind of scenarios are there
and, you know, what are
we looking at where the
business machine here is better
at gaming graphics than it
is at arrow? Now there's
an interesting question. Cause I
find that that more monitors
that I have, I feel
like my machine is slower.
I've got four monitors and
one of them's a 30
and I'm running it Nvidia
two 75. And when I
added that 30 inch monitor,
things just felt slow. But
my graphic scores is six
seven, which is pretty, pretty
respectable. I would think at
least for pushing two-dimensional windows
around any thoughts on that
guys? Well, of course it
could always be a driver
issue, but certainly the more
real estate you have, the
more windows that you have
open, the more that the,
the graphics on the system
is going to get stressed
are moving arrow windows around.
I mean, it really, any
video card will do one
thing these days. I mean,
when I think about video
card performance, I don't, this
is a developer machine. I
don't want to optimize for
three D graphics. I want
to optimize for a minimizing
time. You know, I want
to optimize for, for not
ever having visual tearing, has
I drag a window or
resize a big window? So
I want to point out
that I want to optimize
for today, not 3d from,
for myself. I have to
agree with Jeff on this
one, that with the modern
operating system, there's more and
more three D graphics, even
just in opening up internet
Explorer, wandering around, moving between
things like the start menu
tab option. And you need
a little bit of both.
This is tricky. So should
we only use one monitor
when I am running the
Windset test? It shouldn't matter.
No, I don't think that's
gonna matter. Okay. Well, that's
good to know. I always
wondered if I should just
switch to 1,024 and run
the test to get myself
a better score. The, the
graphics is rendered off screen.
So the actual resolution on
your monitor shouldn't have any
impact at all. This is
a good, good insight then.
So people are saying that
the Nvidia video cards in
video four 80, I think
is the model number is
a really good one. And
if you look at WPI,
share X 11 support, and
they've got a 7.9, it's
the GTX four 80, except
apparently it runs really hot.
We're already talking about water,
cooling the process. Are we
going to have to water
cool the video card? That
sounds like more hassle than
it's worth. There's a good
chance. You're going to want
a water. Cool. The video
card. We can't say for
sure, whether you need to
over clock depending on which
video card you get. I
don't think you're going to
need to do much a
7.8 7.7. Graphics card is
pretty easy to hit 7.9
might be a little tricky.
It's really about kind of
heat and noise at this
point, I would assume. Right?
So Scott, I'm guessing you're
going to need two cards
for all the monitors. So
that's a fair bit of
heat inside that case. Right?
And I was reading a
little bit about how to,
how to a water cool,
those, and even recommended that
you put them on a
separate loop from the process,
or if you're doing serious
overclocking so you're talking about
two water cooling units. Remember
it, remember to the point
of the people on the
blogs. We want to build
the ultimate developer machine. I
want to make sure that
we don't accidentally start hooking
up blue tubes, a crazy
liquid flowing around without remembering
that the goal here is
to compile code, not to
play Counterstrike. So there's some
other video cards that it
looks like on the, we
share stuff are not that
four 80, but they're a
little bit lower and they're
still doing pretty well. Right?
So I think there were
like a 200 something series.
And so those might be
a better choice. Okay. Well,
so when, when we're talking
about the developer machine, the
compiler is still single threaded.
At least the one that
we're using. So clock speeds
important multithreading and like having
like a hexachord machine is
important. Cause we're going to
have, we're going to have
outlook and Twitter and compiling
all open at the same
time. Memory's important because we
might have virtual machines. We're
going to have piles of
things, but we don't want
any memory pressure at all.
So 12, 16, 24, somewhere
in there because we're looking
at  coming and that's
going to have 3d inside
it. We ain't going to
want to have our three
D graphics a little higher
than maybe it sounds like
I expected, but compiling hits
the heart, hits the hard
drive. That's the thing Scott
goo Scott Guthrie has consistently said
that if you want to
make visual studio faster or
the perception of speed, at
least get a fast, hard
drive. Everyone knows that we
need an SSD. Right? We
all agree that SSD is
the way to go. Right?
What, what SSDs can we
afford given that we may
be spending a thousand dollars
on a processor? Well, I
mean the SSD you're gonna,
you're gonna pay for it.
Particularly if you try to
do the raid set up,
do we have anybody on
the site so far who's
been able to hit 7.9
without going to the raid
array. It's hard to say
because the numbers there don't
really tell you if it's
raid. But if you look
at the size of the
drives, you can kind of
infer that there might be
one or two or more
SSDs involved. Right? So I'm
concerned about the rate of
rape because I understand that
doesn't support trim, and that,
that bothers me. So what
is trim and why do
I care? So trim is
really a way to clear
blocks of memory on that
SSD so that it can
be used. You're going to
end up really slowing down
your performance. If you don't
have trim support, that drives
going to degrade in time.
Okay. So I haven't seen
an SSD yet. That's within
our budget. That'll do the
seven nine. So is this
something that it would be
dumb to actually get the
seven, nine and we'll, you
know, we'd be better off
by just going with like
a seven, seven or something.
Yeah. I mean the, the
is that Intel, M 25
is a beautiful machine, a
little beautiful little box and
it does great. And it's,
you can probably get 7.7,
something like that out of
it. Yeah. I do have
to admit, I'm pretty nervous
about, you know, striping to
a SSDs, you know, even
with the trim stuff aside,
it just seems like I'm
really asking for my whole
machine to not boot the
next day. And that is
the thing about SSTs though.
Isn't it? That when they
die, they don't die in
a way they just simply
don't work anymore. Right. It's
not like, Oh, a sector's
bad. I'll not worry about
that sector. That's a feature
I wasn't aware of. Thanks
for scaring me. Well, I
mean, it's memory, right? It's
just this big old Papa.
A and I know there's
errors all the time on
hard drives there's errors all
the time on SSTs. But
as I'm understanding, you know,
with a hard drive, at
least when the thing is
spinning the rust around, if
you hear a couple of
clicks, it's like, okay, it's
time. It's time to think
about maybe getting another hard
drive in the next 24
hours, but with an SSD,
it's just sorry, it doesn't
work anymore. So we assume
that as good developers and
good people, we all have
backup plans. But if you
put a striped array together,
you really are saying that,
you know, let's just double
the chances of something going
wrong and let's tie the
two drive success to each
other. Right. So I trust
Intel, but I know that
people are getting 7.9 on
a crucial, but I don't,
I mean, crucial makes good
memory, but I don't know
them from an SSD perspective.
I think I'd feel more
comfortable going with an Intel
drive with trim support. And
I just don't know. I
trust Intel, is that, is
that a logical? I mean,
that's how I chose mine.
I knew that was just
a nice, a nice box
and got good reviews. And
I decided that was the
one I wanted and I
didn't want to trust anybody
else, But I think, you
know, of all the things
that we're looking at here,
SSD seemed to be the
technology that's moving the fastest
in terms of performance and,
and kind of new approaches
and everything. And so it
seems to be the, the
least sane place to dump
a boatload of cash. Yeah.
That's a good point. I
mean, we know that they're
good. We know what's ones
are good, a non tech
and Tom's hardware. The data
around SSDs is, is pretty
much well understood. And we
could, that is a part
we could potentially update in
a year or two, assuming
that it'll get even faster.
It sounds like though, that
there really isn't an off
the shelf, single SSD, that's
going to guarantee us a
seven, nine, and I don't
really feel comfortable striping SSDs.
Although if I Stripe my
SSTs, will that literally get
me like, not a seven,
nine, but like a 15.8.
Is that, is it going
to be that much faster?
No, I don't think so.
It's not twice as fast.
Don't forget Scott, if you
have the coin, it's only
10 grand for 1400 megs
per second. I know that
you want the OCC, the
$10,000 SSD, but I guess
my question is with the
raid, I'm going to have
to start thinking about, am
I using on, on board
rate? Am I buying a
rate card? And at this
point I'm effectively just talking
to a Ram disk. I,
I assume with a, with
a two I've had like
two Intel's in a, in
a Stripe. Yeah. If you
use well, onboard rate is,
is a whole separate discussion
from, I think from the,
the dedicated raid cards, but
a good raid card with
onboard processing and onboard cash
will also you back. Like,
I think there are anywhere
between five and a thousand
and you know, the onboard
stuff is, you know, good
enough for most folks, but
it uses system resources. It
uses system memory. It's kind
of like a, remember when
printers came out and the
printers used to actually have
smart before then. Well, these
are sort of the same
thing. Okay. All right. So
it sounds like if I'm
going to get an a
7.9, we're going to need
a, a quad or six
core processor. That's overclocked into
four gigahertz range. I think
it'll probably be that, that
I seven that we talked
about before, we might have
to overclock that a little
bit and do a little
water cooling, but certainly not
required. I mean, I could
just probably get a seven,
seven or seven, six, just
fine running that without water
cooling, we'll probably get an
SSD, the Intel X 25,
maybe the extreme edition, if
we can afford it, right.
Run that as our primary
drive and then get a,
a couple of data drives
that we can make some
spinning rust. Maybe we could
do that in a raid
for our, for our data
drives some new Nvidia video
card, probably the four 80.
And since they do run
a little bit hot, I
know that there's a whole
religious argument between ATI and
Nvidia, but ATI lost me
six years ago with bad
drivers. And I just haven't
come back yet. I'd be
interested in from the listeners
what they think about the
video card, but if we
can get that into the
water cooling loop, Same thing
here, it was the bad
drivers about six years ago.
Yeah. It was just too
many blue screens. It was
like 99% of my blue
screens were, were video driver
based. And I've never had
a blue screen on an
Nvidia in the windows seven
timeframe. And then I think
at least 12 gigs of
Ram, the one thing that
I always feel like I
don't have enough of is,
is Ram. And then actually
one of the things about
the SSD, we've got to
have a 256 gigs C
drive. I mean, getting, trying
to get everything I need
running in 128 gigs is,
is going to be just
too, too difficult. So let's,
let's price that up heat.
And we'll put that on
the show notes and might
another blog post with our,
our final list of what
we're gonna, what we're going
to buy. And we'll get
more criticism from the, from
the group. One last question
I want to leave you
guys with, so you can,
maybe each of you can
answer it separately is that
we're developers. We're not, we're
not a non from a
non tech or Tom from
Tom's hardware. One of the
greatest comments that I got
on the blog post was
that this seems like a
bunch of sequel guys trying
to build a user interface.
You know, it's like, they're
probably going to get it
done, but it's hard to
really watch them do it.
Did we make a mistake
by not just talking to
someone who can speak to
this at the, at the
really, really detailed level? Or
is it okay for a
developer, maybe a listener who's
who's not a big hardware
guy to put together a
machine like this without expertise,
deep, deep expertise in hardware.
This is Jeff. Can I
answer that first, please? Jeff,
I'm not an expertise in
hardware, but I absolutely love
to put together own machines.
And if I just went
out and asked somebody, tell
me what to build. There's
no, there's no interest, no
excitement, nothing. I might as
well just ask him to
build it and give them
a couple hundred dollars extra.
I really enjoy doing it.
I've got to say pretty
much the same thing you
learn by doing. And you
can do some research. You
can figure out how it's
put together. It's a fun
and interesting experience. And the
computer will just mean more
to you because you built
it with your own two
hands. Definitely. You know, I've
built every machine that I've
had since a two 86
and it's, I get a
lot of enjoyment out of
actually building them. So I
think it's at least as
enjoyable to learn something new,
which is why I want
to do water cooling this
time. I've never done that
before as it is to,
you know, just go in
and buy something and have
it run really well. So
I'm really interested in building
this myself. Okay. Larry Larson. Yeah.
I I've always built my
own machine. I've never had
a desktop. I've never had
a store bought a machine.
So I, I look at
it like, you know, like
a Jedi not building his
own lightsaber. It's something that
if you're you have to
do it. So it's always,
You have to build your
own lightsaber. There you go.
My friends, that's the, that's
the quote of the show
right there is that you
may not be a good
Jetta. You may be one
of the slightly less competent
lightsaber. My friends. Thanks so
much for coming on the
show and talking about the
ultimate development. We may not
know what we're doing here
on the Hansel minutes, but
we're having fun doing it.
I really appreciate everyone's time.
It's been my pleasure. Thanks.
Alright. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.